# OpenXSConverter
An open source utility to convert various publicly available macroscopic nuclear cross section formats.

This converter takes one of several different input XS formats and converts them to one of several different output XS formats.

To compile OpenXSConverter, navigate to the source folder and then make the converter by typing:
```
  >> make
```
A successful compilation of OpenXSConverter will conclude with the line:
```
  >> mv ./OpenXSConverter.exe ../
```

To run OpenXSConverter, simply invoke the OpenXSConverter binary and follow it immediately with the XS input file followed by the XS output format (where `<xs_in>` is the name of the XS input file and `<out_form>` is the output format):
```
  >> <path_to_OpenXSConverterr>/OpenXSConverter.exe <xs_in> <out_form>
```
The output file will be titled `<xs_in>_<out_form>.out` unless the output is for an HDF5 format (such as OpenMC cross sections), in which case it will be of the form `<xs_in>_<out_form>.out.h5`.

Currently, the OpenXSConverter only supports the following input/output formats:
* Input formats:
  * [Serpent Version 2 multigroup XS output](https://serpent.vtt.fi/mediawiki/index.php/Description_of_output_files)
  * THOR XS format.
  * [OpenMC](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/) XS HDF5 formatted cross sections [generated by OpenMC.](https://nbviewer.org/github/openmc-dev/openmc-notebooks/blob/main/mgxs-part-i.ipynb)
* Output formats:
  * `THOR` - THOR XS format.
  * `OpenMC` - Creates an initial [Python](https://www.python.org/) script for running with [OpenMC](https://docs.openmc.org/en/stable/). This script only contains the commands to create and use the cross sections so the user must either add it to an existing OpenMC script, or create one with this initial baseline by adding geometry, settings, etc.

There are also plans to add the following formats for input/output as well:
* MPACT/VERA - Export controls allowing.
* MCNP - Export controls allowing.

---
## Examples
---

The folder `examples` contains an example of an OpenMC generated cross section, `example.h5`, that has been converted to both OpenMC input, `example.py`, as well as THOR cross sections `example.xs`.
These cross sections are from a nonphysical 5 cm sphere of 1 kg/cm^3 pure U235 surrounded by another 5 cm of 1 kg/cm^3 hydrogen.
These particular cross sections have 3 energy groups and P4 scattering.
The OpenMC generated XS as well as the THOR XS can be converted to either THOR or OpenMC output by the user if they so wish to compare to the examples in the folder.